So in this breakpoint session, we're going to trace the runtime of two different scenarios.
The first scenario is a bug that we encountered when we were updating with a name, and the final scenario
will trace the runtime of our current solution.
So here I'm starting with scenario number one.
I launched a previous version of the project, so you don't have to do what I'm doing, just follow
along.
And in this project we were using a name to update a student's grade.
So what I'm going to do is start by running the application in debug mode.
Um.
You'll notice I already have all of my breakpoints set up, but I disabled them, so I'll go ahead and
re-enable them.
All right, I'll add one more breakpoint right over here, actually.
One here as well.
And I think my application should have run by now.
So I'll go to local host.
You know what?
Let me disable the breakpoints.
And I'm going to add a piece of data to our data store.
We'll say Harry C minus potions.
And now updating a student's grade based on their name is not a good idea.
Here's why.
Let's say I want to give Harry another grade in Quidditch.
So we'll say Harry, we'll give him a C-minus.
Or, you know what?
Let's change it up.
We'll give him a B-minus in Quidditch.
And before I press the submit button, let me just re-enable the breakpoints.
Submit initiates a post request the handler method receives that post request starts by creating a new
grade object using your empty constructor.
And now Spring Boot is smart enough to use your sweaters.
An update every field in the grade object with payload from the post request so it's going to update
the name field with a value from the post request.
It will update the score field with a value from the post request and it will update the subject field.
Sweet.
And as we step further into the handler method, the name parameter matches one of the objects inside
of the array list.
This is a problem.
Because this function is effectively going to return an index.
And so even though our intent was to add a new object to that data store, it updates an existing one.
The handler method then redirects the user to the grades template.
It's going to send over the model data.
And finally, it's going to generate a table with rows that reflect, in this case, the newly updated
ArrayList.
This is not good.
As our current design implies that each student can only have one grade.
So what did we do?
Well, let's travel a few edits into the future.
What we did in this project is we added a new ID field and unlike the name, the ID is going to be unique
for every great object.
So it's perfect for updates.
So I'm going to add the exact same breakpoints as before.
And looking back, there's no reason to be returning the class type integer.
Let me just return the normal int.
And I'll add a breakpoint here.
One here.
One here, one here as well.
All right, now I'll go ahead and run the application and debug mode.
And let's say I want to give Harry another grade in Quidditch.
If I go to local host 8080.
The Handler method intercepts the get request.
There is no ID parameter that was being passed back.
It's null.
The Handler method ends up creating a new grade object, and right away the constructor is going to
generate a unique ID for the ID field.
Get form adds this grade object to the model.
The key grade maps to an empty grade object that does have an ID.
And as the handler method returns the form templates.
It sends over the model data.
The form element selects the grade object.
Every field in the object is bound to a form input.
Three of the fields in the model object are empty, so it follows that three of the form inputs are
going to be empty as well.
But the ID field does contain data and the last input which happens to be hidden is bound to it.
And so now when you submit the form, we'll give Harry another grade and Quidditch.
We'll say B minus.
In Quidditch, it's going to initiate a post request.
And this time the post request carries four values back to the back end.
It's going to carry back a name subject score as well as an ID.
Now, before we can see that the Handler method submit form receives the post request and as soon as
it does, you can see that it creates an empty grade object using your empty constructor.
Every field in the object starts off as empty, but the empty constructor generates another ID for this
object.
Bring uses your setters to update every field and the great object with payload from the post request
and it's going to override that ID value with a value from the post request.
It updates the name with the value from the Post request.
It updates the score where they add value from the Post request and it updates the subject.
Beautiful.
And as we step further into the handler method.
The ID field.
It doesn't match anything in the data store.
So it adds this object to our array list.
Then it redirects the client to make another get request on slash grades.
This is going to add the updated array list to our model.
Returns.
The grades, templates and the grade template is going to generate rows that reflect our newly updated
array list.
And just like that, the bug is gone.
Before we actually wrap things up, one last thing I want to breakpoint in this section is updating
a student grade.
So we'll press update.
And what the update button does is it makes a get request to local host 8080 and in that request it
sends back an ID parameter.
BD two.
DD seven.
This is the ID of Harry's great object for potions.
The handler method get form receives this ID and it checks if that ID matches anything inside of our
data store.
It definitely should.
So if I press continue.
It adds Harry's great object to our model the grade key maps to our grade object.
So upon returning the form view, it's going to send over this model data and the form element is going
to be bound to this grade object such that each input is going to bind to a field in that form backing
object.
All of the fields are populated.
So it follows that all of the farm inputs are going to be populated as well.
Beautiful.
And now if I decide to update Harris grade to an A-plus and press submit, remember this I'd be d2d
if I press submit.
What that does is it initiates a post request and the handler method submit form receives that post
request.
The first thing that it does is it creates a new grade object using your empty constructor.
Now, the problem is, upon creating this new grade object, it's going to assign it a new ID.
But not to worry, because Spring Boot is smart enough to update every single field in this object with
payload from the post request.
And so what it's going to do is override this ID value with the one provided by the post request BD
to DH.
So now the IDs are consistent again.
Now we're updating the name with a value from the post request.
We're updating the score and we're updating the subject.
All right.
And now we're checking if the idea of this grade matches anything in the data store.
It definitely should.
The index it returns is zero, which means it did find an object to update and it's going to update
the object at index zero.
Upon doing so, it will redirect the client to make a get request on slash grades.
The grades handler method is going to add this new array list as a model attribute.
Giving Harry an A-plus in potions and upon returning the grades templates.
The new rose that it generates will reflect the newly updated array list.
Just like that.
We updated Harry's grade.